Re: LT16129
    Classically accelerating solenoidal wave packets in two dimensions
    by Argha Mondal, Yishuai Xu, L. Andrew Wray, et al.

Dear Prof. Grier,

The above manuscript has been reviewed by our referees.  A critique
drawn from the reports appears below.  On this basis, we judge that
while the work probably warrants publication in some form, it does not
meet the Physical Review Letters criteria of impact, innovation, and
interest.

The paper, with revision as appropriate, might be suitable for
publication in Physical Review.  If you submit the paper to Physical
Review, the editors of that journal will make the decision on
publication of the paper, and may seek further review; however, our
complete file will be available.

If you submit this manuscript or a revision of it to Physical Review,
be sure to respond to all referee comments and cite the code number
assigned to the paper to facilitate transfer of the records.

If you feel that you can overcome or refute the criticism, you may
resubmit to Physical Review Letters.  Please accompany any resubmittal
by a summary of the changes made and a brief response to all
recommendations and criticisms.

Yours sincerely,

Stojan Rebic
Associate Editor
Physical Review Letters
Email: prl@aps.org
https://journals.aps.org/prl/

Celebrating 125 Years of the Physical Review
https://journals.aps.org/125years   #PhysRev125

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee A -- LT16129/Mondal
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In this manuscript, the authors theoretically and experimentally
demonstrate a self-rotating wave-packet, by virtue of proper
overlapping of several Bessel wave-packets. However, such an approach
to generate radially self-accelerating wavepackets has been studied in
C. Vetter, et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 183901 (2014). Therefore, I do
not think the work in this manuscript is significant enough for
publication on Physical Review Letters.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee B -- LT16129/Mondal
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This is an interesting and very well written paper. In their
presentation, the authors advance an optical analogy to the problem of
circular motion of a particle in the force-free region of a circular
box. They used this analogy to present yet another "apparent
violation" of the Ehrenfest theorem.

The misuse of different features of a wavepacket instead of its center
of mass has been pointed out before. The superposition of Bessel
beams, the optical realization of solenoidal beams and their
non-diffractive features has also been amply discussed in the
literature. Perhaps a better survey or prior works could be
appropriate. Nevertheless, even though in this context the description
of the authors' interpretation is clear and straightforward, they
could have made a better case for their present scope. What do we
learn from this analogy? Is this analogy really describing a wave
packet in 2D? What is it remarkable about the truncated solenoidal
modes not accelerating a la Balasz and Berry? Would a vectorial
description of the superposition change anything?

I could recommend publication if these issues are properly resolved.



----------------------------------------------------------------------
Second Report of Referee B -- LT16129/Mondal
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In their reply, the authors did not really make a case for what we are
supposed to learn from this analogy. Experimental demonstration aside,
how does this analogy broaden the community that "will benefit from an
explanation of the true nature of these states"?

Like I indicated in my previous report, this is a well-written paper
and a nicely explained experiment but its significance is not evident.
The fact that some integrals may be of "technical interest to
specialists" does not support the need for publication in PRL.

In conclusion, my major concerns have not been fully addressed in the
revised manuscript.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee C -- LT16129/Mondal
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This is certainly an interesting paper that deals with a range of
points. Disentangling that which has gone before and the novelty is
clearly key, and I think is at the heart of the comments provided by
the other two referees. My view is that the authors make a solid case
for the novelty of the work and that there is enough general interest
here related to the interplay between this class of beams,
applications of such beam and the links between the fundamental
properties of light to make it suitable for publication in PRL.

My major concern is that the authors still do not seem to draw out the
key points in the introduction. For example in response to Referee 2
the comment is made:

"Confusion has arisen regarding the nature of the freely propagating
states once the confining boundary is removed. As our experimental
realizations illustrate, these states also appear to accelerate, much
like their confined counterparts. We demonstrate, however, that these
states' small amount of diffraction is precisely what is required to
transform their acceleration into uniform translation. This is now
emphasized in the concluding paragraph."

While the mention in the concluding paragraph is fine (although is
maybe not as strong as the above), I'd like to see more emphasis on
this in the introduction would be good. In fact putting the key points
as enumerated for referee one in a more discursive form in the opening
couple of paragraphs might be better at setting the scene than what is
written.

Before publication I'd suggest tightening up this introduction to make
it clearer as the novelty in the work, as at present it seems to
rather skirt around this issue. This confusion perhaps comes about due
to a lot of the work feeling very familiar in terms of the beam
shaping aspects, so I do think it worth the effort to really clarify
what is new.

Beyond that the technical aspects look solid, although it'd be good to
see the error in 'b' reported and some note on why the experimental
values seems rather different from the theoretical one.
